---
layout: post
title: "Compiling Apple Swift on FreeBSD (not a big hassle)"
category: tutorial
by: zebMcCorkle
tags: swift apple tutorial compile
---

One might think compiling Apple Swift on FreeBSD might be a bit of a hassle, but because it uses the LLVM framework it really isn't! There currently isn't a port for it, although I might make one soon, but there is a [`sh` script](https://github.com/zebMcCorkle/swift-freebsd) on my GitHub that does the whole process for you. Here, I describe the process I took to make those instructions (because for some reason Apple's guide for compiling for Linux are incomplete?)

### Step 1 - Install dependencies

There are minimal dependencies for Swift, at least on my system they were all installed. The Apple guide has a list of dependencies for Ubuntu, so I turned that into a list of ports you need:

 - `devel/git`
 - `devel/cmake`
 - `lang/clang37`
 - `lang/python2`

If it doesn't compile on your system with just these dependencies, feel free to pull request needed dependencies in to [the site's GitHub repo](https://github.com/ID10T-Errors/ID10T-Errors.github.io).

### Step 2 - Download other dependencies and set up build environment

Swift requires some other dependencies than just the binary ones you installed last step, so we'll set up a building folder in `~` with the dependencies.

```
mkdir ~/building
cd ~/building
```

Now, we'll download the dependencies

```
wget http://llvm.org/releases/3.7.0/llvm-3.7.0.src.tar.xz -O- | tar -xvf -
wget http://llvm.org/releases/3.7.0/cfe-3.7.0.src.tar.xz -O- | tar -xvf -
mkdir llvm
cp -R llvm-3.7.0.src/* llvm/
mkdir clang
cp -R cfe-3.7.0.src/* clang/
rm -rf llvm-3.7.0.src cfe-3.7.0.src
```

### Step 3 - Download Swift

Now that we have the dependencies, we now have to download the Swift source code. I'm going to clone the current `master` branch, as Swift follows GitHub flow and `master` is always deployable.

```
git clone https://github.com/apple/swift # or, if you have the hub utility: hub clone apple/swift
```

### Step 4 - Compile Swift

This is the easiest part. We simply have to run a shell script that compiles Swift for us.

```
cd swift
utils/build-script
```

### Step 5 - Celebrate

Congratulations! You've compiled Swift! I'm now going to turn each line of code in this blog post into a shell script and post it on my GitHub so you can just run that like this:

```
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/zebMcCorkle/swift-freebsd/master/install.sh -O- | sh -
```

This script, however, will not install the dependencies from ports.
